in an earlier video I had said that PCA
can be sometimes used to speed up the
running time of a learning algorithm in
this video I'd like to explain how to
actually do that and also say some also
just try to get some advice about how to
apply PCA here's how you can use PCA to
speed up a learning algorithm and this
is a supervised learning algorithm speed
up is actually the most common user that
you know I personally make of PCA let's
say you have a supervised learning
problem notice a supervised learning
problem with infos X and labels Y and
let's say that your example is X I I'm
very high dimensional so let's say X I
are you know 10,000 dimensional feature
vectors one example of that would be if
you were doing some computer vision
problem where you have 100 100 images
and so if you have 100 100 that's 10,000
pixels and so if X I are you know
feature vectors that contain your 10,000
pixel intensity values then you have
10,000 dimensional feature vectors so
with very high dimensional feature
vectors like this a running learning a
learning algorithm can be slow right
just if you fee you know 10,000
dimensional feature vectors into
logistic regression or a neural network
or support vector machine or what have
you
just because that's a lot of data that's
10,000 numbers um it can make your
learning algorithm run more slowly
fortunately with PCA we'll be able to
reduce the dimension of this data and so
make our algorithms run more efficiently
here's how you do that we're going to
first take our labeled training set and
extract just the input so I'm just going
to extract the X's and you know
temporarily put aside the Y's so this
will now give us an unlabeled training
set this x1 through XM which are maybe
this of 10,000 dimensional data 10,000
dimensional example
so just extract the input vectors x1
through XM then we're going to apply PCA
and this will give me a reduced
dimension representation of data so
instead of 10,000 dimensional feature
vectors
I now have maybe one thousand
dimensional feature vectors so let's
look at 10x savings so this gives me if
you will a new training set so whereas
previously I might have had an example
x1 y1 my first training input is now
represented by z1 instead we'll have a
new sort of training example which is z1
pairs of y1 and similarly zi2 y2 and so
on up to z my m because my training
examples are now represented with this
much lower dimensional representation z1
z2 up to ZM finally I can take this sum
reduce dimension training set and feed
it to a learning algorithm maybe our new
network may be logistic regression and I
can learn the hypothesis H that takes us
input these low dimensional
representations Z and tries to make
predictions and so if I were using
logistic regression for example I would
train a hypothesis that outputs you know
1 over 1 plus e to the negative theta
transpose Z or theta transpose it that
takes this input to one of these Z
vectors and tries to make a prediction
and finally if you have a new example
maybe a new test example X what you do
is you would take your new test example
X map it through the same mapping that
was found by PCA to get you your
corresponding Z and that Z then get fed
to this hypothesis and this hypothesis
then makes a prediction on your in place
one final note what PCA does is it
defines a mapping from X to Z and this
mapping from X to Z should be defined by
running PCA only on the training set and
in particular this mapping that PCA is
learning right this mapping what that
does is it computes the scylla
parameters right that's the feature
scaling and mean normalization and
there's also computing this matrix you
reduce but all of these things that you
views that's like a parameter that is
learned by PCA and we should be fitting
our parameters only to our training set
and not to our cross-validation
intestines and so these things that you
reduced and so on that should be
obtained by running PCA only on your
training set and then having found new
reduce or having found you know the
parameters for feature scaling or the
mean normalization and scaling the scale
that you divide the features by to get
them onto couple scales but having found
all those parameters on the training set
you can then apply the same mapping to
other examples that may be in your
cross-validation set or in your or in
your test set episode just to summarize
when you're running PCA run your PCA
only on the training set portion of your
data not the cross-validation set or the
tested portion in your data and that
defines the mapping from X to Z you can
then apply that mapping to your
cross-validation set and your test set
and by the way in this example I talked
about reducing the data from 10,000
dimensional to 1,000 mention all this is
actually not that unrealistic for many
problems we can actually reduce the
dimensional data you know by 5 X maybe
by 10 X and still retain most of the
variance then we can do this without
barely affecting the performance in
terms of classification accuracy let's
say barely affecting the classification
accuracy of the learning algorithm and
by working with low dimensional data a
learning algorithm can often run much
much faster to summarize we've so far
talked about the following applications
of PCA first is the compression
application where we might do so to
reduce the memory or the disk space
needed to slow data and we just talked
about how to use this to speed up a
learning hour
in these applications in order to choose
K often will do so according to figuring
out what is the percentage of variance
retained and so it's but this is a
learning out from speed-up application
you know often will maintain 99% of the
variance that would be a very typical
choice for how to choose okay so that's
how you choose K for these compression
applications whereas for visualization
applications well usually we know how to
plot only two dimensional data or three
dimensional data and so for
visualization applications we would
usually choose K equals 2 or K equals 3
because you know you can plot them be 2d
and 3d data sets so that summarizes the
main applications of PCA as well as how
to choose the value of K for these
different applications I should mention
that there's often that there's one
frequent width use of PCA and you
sometimes hear about others doing this
hopefully not too often but as I
mentioned this so that you know not to
do it and there's one bad use of PCA
which is to try to use it to prevent
overfitting here's the reasoning this is
not dissing race it's not a great way to
use PCA but here's the reasoning behind
this method which is you know if we have
X I then maybe we'll have n features but
if we compress the data and use zi0
instead then that reduces the number of
features to K which could be much lower
dimensional and so if we have a much
smaller number of features of K as you
know mm and n is 10,000 then well if we
have only a thousand dimensional data
maybe we're less likely to overfit and
if we were using 10,000 dimensional data
with like a thousand features you know
and so some people think of PCA as a way
to prevent overfitting but just
emphasize this is a bad application of
PCA and I do not recommend doing this
and it's not that this method works
badly you know if you were to use this
method to reduce the dimensional data
to try to prevent over-fitting it might
actually work okay but this just is not
a good way to address overfitting and
instead if you're worried about
overfitting is a much better way to
address it to use the regularization
instead of using PCA to reduce the
dimension of the data and the reason is
if you think about how PCA works it does
not use the labels why right now you're
just looking at your inputs X I and
you're using that to find a lower
dimensional approximation to your data
so what PCA does is it throws away some
of some information it throws away or
reduces the dimension of your data
without knowing what the values of Y is
so this is probably okay using PCA this
way is probably okay if say 99% of the
variance obtained if you're keeping most
of the variance but it might also throw
away some valuable information and it
turns out that you know if you're
retaining 99% of the variance or 95% of
the Bairns or whatever it turns out that
just using regularization will often
give you at least as good a method for
preventing overfitting and
regularization will often work just work
better because when you're applying
linear regression or which is regression
or some other method with regularization
well this minimization problem actually
knows what the values of Y are and so is
less likely to throw away some valuable
information whereas PCA doesn't make use
of the labels and it's more likely to
throw away valuable information so just
summarize it is a good use of pca if
your main motivation is to speed up your
learning algorithm but using PCA to
prevent overfitting that's definitely
good use of PCA and using regularization
instead this is really what what most
people what many people will recommend
doing this fit finally one loss list use
of PCA so I should say PCA is a very
useful algorithm I often use it you know
for the compression of the visualization
purposes but what I sometimes see is
also people sometimes use PCA where it
shouldn't be
so here's a pretty common thing that I
see right which is the someone's
designing machine learning system you
know they may break down the plan like
this you know let's design a learning
system get a training set and then you
know what I'm going to do is run PCA
then train which is Russian in the test
online test data so often at the very
start of a project someone will just
write out a project plan that says let's
do these small steps with pca inside
before writing on a project plan that
incorporates pca like this one very good
question to ask is well what if we were
to just do the whole thing without using
PCA and often people do not consider
this step before like coming up with a
complicated project planning and
implementing PCA and so on and some time
and so specifically what I often often
advise people is before you implement
PCA I would first suggest that you know
do whatever it is take whatever is you
want to do and first consider doing it
with your original raw data X I and only
if that doesn't do what you want dint
influent PC and consider using some
other so before using PCA you know
instead of reducing the dimension of the
data I would consider well let's ditch
this PCA step and I would consider let's
just train my learning algorithm on my
original data let's just use my original
row a plus X I and I would recommend
instead of putting PCA into the
algorithm just try doing whatever it is
you're doing with the X I first and only
if you have a reason to believe that
doesn't work so if only if your learning
algorithm ends up running too slowly or
only if the memory requirement or the
disk space requirement is too large so
you want to compress your representation
that only if using the X I doesn't work
only if you have evidence or a strong
reason to believe that using the X I
won't work then implement PCA and
consider using the compress
representation because what I do see is
sometimes people start off with a
project
the in Corpus PC inside you know
sometimes they whatever they're doing
with it work just fine even without
using PC instead so just consider that
as an alternative as well before you go
and spend a long time to influence you
and figure out what K is and so so
that's if a PCA um just like these last
sets of comments PCA is an incredibly
useful algorithm when you use it for the
appropriate applications and I should
use PCA pretty often and for me I use it
mostly to speed up the running time of
my learning algorithms but I think
almost as common an application of PCA
is to use it to compress data to reduce
the memory of disk space requirements or
to use it to visualize data and PC is
one of the most commonly used among the
most powerful unsupervised learning
algorithms and with what you've learned
in these videos I think hopefully you'll
be able to implement PCA and use them to
all of these purposes as long